Here's another important thing I want to share with you.
You already can provide some offline functionality in your app
but if the user visits our app like this and has never been to the help page and I haven't been to
it, you can see in the dynamic cache,
we don't cache anything from that page.
Now make sure to not visit it, if you have, simply delete your cache and reload the page.
So with the help page not cached,
if we now go offline and reload, the main page works of course
but if I navigate to help, it fails because we never fetched anything from that page, which makes sense.
This page here however is not really that beautiful.
It would be better if we had a default fallback page we could present for pages we haven't cached yet
but also not this page here,
so some in-between solution, that we at least have our own styling, we stay on our page and we say hey
sorry this is not available offline but you can go here and provide a link to some other resource which
has been cached, something like that, to enhance the user experience.
Now we can do that and for that, we need to add a new file to our setup.
I'll add a new file in the main directory, so in the public directory I should say and I'll name it
offline.html
.
Now the file name is up to you,
the file extension is not, it should be a HTML file and first of all, I'll copy the content from my index.html
file because I want to stay in the same frame so to say, the same app shell,
I don't need the feed.js
file in that offline file here though, so I can get rid of that. I'll leave the other imports
and regarding the styling here,
I don't need the feed.css file but I need the app.css file and the other imports too.
In the end, I want to use the same app shell,
so I'll leave the navigation here,
what I will do though is get rid of this create post div which is this pop-up we can open
basically, I'll get rid of this image and what I'll also do is here I'll get rid of shared moments, this div,
we won't load anything here and
I'll leave the title for now.
Get rid of that floating button and of everything below there,
we don't need that here, so we have a bare minimum page here with the menu though.
Now what I want to do on this page is
I want to output some text like we're sorry, this page hasn't been cached yet,
maybe show a sad smiley and below that, I'll add a paragraph,
but why don't you try one of our other pages and maybe other pages could be a link, so
let's add one where we simply point to the root page to go back there.
Now the goal is to load this page, this offline.html page whenever the user is offline and visit something,
some page we haven't pre-cached yet or we haven't cached at all,
also not dynamically cached,
for example if you visit the help page for the first time so it hasn't been cached.
We can control this in the service worker.
For one we need to bump up the static cache version and add a new file to the cache, the offline.html
file,
so add /offline.html because that is the path to that file,
the only way to load it
but then I'll change something down here in our fetch response.
We try to fetch something from the cache and if we don't find it there, we reach out to the network.
Now if that fails, we don't do anything right now, here
I now want to return my fallback page.
So here's what I want to do is, I want to return something and I want to return an operation where I
open my static cache because that is where I put that offline.html file, so here in the then function,
I have access to that cache then because it was opened
and in that cache, I now want to get the offline.html file and return it.
Now the command for getting something is match and I try to find something with the /offline.html
identifier, which is the exact URL, request URL
I passed up here, here,
so it should be found.
This is what I store and this is what I try to match here and this will automatically return me the value
if it finds it.
Keep in mind that since we add it here to add all, the request for it will be made automatically and it
will be stored together with its response in the cache.
Here of course, we have to return the value of cache match though because we want to return that retrieved
value.
Now with that whenever we make a HTTP request where we can't get a valid value, we'll return this page.
This of course has the side effect that if it's some other request, like us fetching some JSON from a URL
we can't reach,
we also return this.
So fine tuning might be required and it is something we can look into later when we see how we can cache
depending on the route of the resource, or the full URL of the resource,
for now we're going to go with that approach.
So with this in place, let's save this, we change the service workers so we have to go back, make
offline available again, make the internet available again I mean, make sure that in the cache we don't have
anything from the help page to not spoil the experience and then simply close the tab and open a new
one or click skip waiting
and now let's go offline.
So the help page hasn't been cached
and now click on help
and you see we're sorry, this page hasn't been cached yet and yes, we could center this text here
but the cool thing is, we can click on other pages,
we're back to the main page, so that all works and we get a better user experience because whilst the
page is not available,
we can show something meaningful here and that is something you also want to have in your toolbox to
enhance your application.